610125	#610125
ICD+
609452	#609452
ICD+
132700	#132700
ICD+
610125	
609452	
132700	
610125	Ragge et al. (2005) described affected members of 8 unrelated families with unilateral or bilateral microphthalmia/clinical anophthalmia and variable additional features including coloboma, microcornea, cataract, retinal dystrophy, hypoplasia or agenesis of the optic nerve, agenesis of the corpus callosum, developmental delay, joint laxity, hypotonia, and seizures. A mother of 2 patients, who was a gonosomal mosaic, had a later-onset phenotype resembling pigmentary retinopathy (see 193220).

Dateki et al. (2008) described an 8.5-year-old Japanese girl who was born with bilateral clinical anophthalmia and cleft palate. She underwent evaluation for short stature at 3.75 years of age and was found to have partial growth hormone (GH; 139250) deficiency. Brain MRI showed bilateral anophthalmia and optic nerve hypoplasia, but brain structure as well as the pituitary gland appeared normal, with an intact stalk and hyperintense signal in the posterior lobe. The patient also showed developmental retardation. Her parents and 2 older brothers were unaffected.

Tajima et al. (2009) reported a 6-year-old Japanese boy with bilateral clinical anophthalmia who upon examination for evaluation of short stature at 4 years of age was also found to have markedly delayed psychomotor retardation, a small penis, and bilateral undescended testes. Laboratory evaluation revealed central hypothyroidism and deficiencies of GH, gonadotropins, and cortisol. Brain MRI showed a small anterior pituitary, invisible pituitary stalk, ectopic posterior lobe, bilateral anophthalmia, absence of optic nerve and chiasm, and Chiari malformation (see 118420).

Chassaing et al. (2012) studied a large 4-generation French family in which 17 individuals had microphthalmia or clinical anophthalmia, 3 were diagnosed with otocephaly-dysgnathia complex (see 202650), and 2 exhibited an intermediate, overlapping phenotype. One affected woman had 2 sons with otocephaly, 1 of whom died soon after birth from respiratory distress and unsuccessful intubation; the second pregnancy was electively terminated after ultrasonography showed recurrence of facial malformations consistent with otocephaly. An affected male cousin also had a son who died soon after birth from respiratory distress with a probable diagnosis of otocephaly. The cousin's half sister exhibited an intermediate phenotype of unilateral anophthalmia and micrognathia. In addition, a half sister of the woman with the otocephalic sons gave birth to a boy who also had an intermediate phenotype and died at birth of respiratory distress with hypoplasia of maxilla and upper pharynx, noncommunication between proboscis and hypopharynx, and rudimentary tongue. Additional features revealed on autopsy included bilateral microphthalmia, absence of anterior ocular chamber, cataract, and focal retinal dysplasia, as well as microretrognathia, microglossia, thymic hyperplasia, 11 ribs, and micropenis. Detailed examinations of the patients with microphthalmia/clinical anophthalmia were not reported, although it was noted that in the fourth generation, 3 male cousins with bilateral clinical anophthalmia had moderate to severe mental retardation. Chassaing et al. (2012) also reported a 12-year-old Caucasian girl who had maxillary hypoplasia, microstomia, absent tongue, agnathia, and a long tubular nose. Her eyes and ears were normally formed, and she had patent external auditory canals. She had no known associated limb or internal organ anomalies or hormonal dysfunction. Her mother had 8 miscarriages, mostly in the first trimester, but there was no family history of ophthalmic or mandibular malformations.

Patat et al. (2013) reported a 4-generation family in which a mother, her father, and her paternal grandmother all had severe unilateral microphthalmia, and the mother terminated a pregnancy at 16 weeks of gestation because of agnathia associated with bilateral microphthalmia. The male fetus had agnathia, astomia, and aglossia, with low, posteriorly rotated, paramedian, and convergent ears. The pharyngeal floor was absent. He had bilateral microphthalmia with downslanted palpebral fissures, and the optic chiasm and pituitary gland could not be detected. X-rays confirmed the absence of mandibular bone. Abnormalities of the extremities included brachymesophalangy of the fifth finger and bilateral talus valgus. Patat et al. (2013) also described a male infant born at 30 weeks of gestation who died shortly after birth of respiratory insufficiency due to absence of the mandible and severe microstomia. He also had persistent buccopharyngeal membrane and dysmorphic anterocaudally positioned ears, as well as mild clubfeet, but his eyes appeared normal on external inspection.

Early-Onset Retinal Dystrophy with or without Pituitary Dysfunction

Vincent et al. (2014) studied 2 Caucasian Canadian families with pattern retinal dystrophy. One was a 3-generation family in which 5 affected individuals underwent detailed eye examination. All 5 presented with reduced distance vision and myopia with or without astigmatism. Color vision was mildly impaired only in the 2 older individuals (fifth decade of life). Horizontal corneal diameters and axial eye lengths were normal. The retina showed a butterfly pattern dystrophy with pigment deposition in 3 patients, an annular pigmentary pattern in 1, and a dull foveal reflex in 1. Optic nerve head dysplasia was noted in 3 patients, and 1 patient had unilateral macular scarring. Spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) showed distinct areas of photoreceptor outer-segment separation from the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), with deposition and clumping on the RPE in areas of pigmentation, but the external limiting membrane appeared preserved. The Arden ratio was normal in the 3 children but borderline or abnormally low in the 2 adults. Electroretinography (ERG) showed moderately decreased cone responses in an affected 13-year-old girl, and her 46-year-old father showed mildly reduced rod and cone responses; the other 3 patients had normal ERGs. Pituitary hormone, cortisol, and serum electrolyte levels were normal in the 6 affected individual in whom they were tested; brain MRI was normal in 4 patients and showed a 0.5-cm Rathke's cleft cyst displacing the posterior aspect of the pituitary in 1. Vincent et al. (2014) also studied a 39-year-old man and his 8-year-old son with pattern retinal dystrophy. The son had nystagmus and photophobia since 2 years of age, and both patients had reduced distance vision. The father had compound myopic astigmatism, whereas the son had myopia. The father also had microcornea, posterior embryotoxon, and optic nerve head dysplasia. The macula showed an atypical pattern with mild RPE changes in the father, and a grouped pigmentation pattern was seen in the son. SD-OCT changes were characteristic and identical to those of the first family. Growth and stature were normal in both father and son. Vincent et al. (2014) noted that, like pattern dystrophies associated with mutation in the PRPH2 (179605) or BEST1 (607854) genes, the phenotype appeared to be very slowly progressive, with only 1 patient from each family showing worsening of vision parameters over a 3- to 5-year follow-up period.
609452	Selcen and Engel (2005) reported 11 unrelated patients with MFM. Age at onset ranged from 44 to 73 years (mean, 54 years). All patients presented with muscle weakness except 1 who presented with palpitations and mildly increased serum creatine kinase. Several patients had family histories consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance. Five patients had more prominent distal weakness than proximal weakness; 1 had only distal weakness, 2 had only proximal weakness, and 3 had both proximal and distal weakness. Three patients had cardiac involvement, and 5 patients had peripheral nerve involvement. EMG showed myopathic changes in 8 patients and both myopathic and neurogenic changes in 2 patients. Ten patients had abnormal electrical irritability. All patients showed MFM on skeletal muscle biopsy, including pleomorphic hyaline, granular, and amorphous deposits on trichrome staining. Ten patients had intensely congophilic hyaline structures, indicating amyloid material. A variable number of fibers had small vacuoles. Immunohistochemistry showed multiple protein deposits, and electron microscopy showed streaming and disintegration of the Z discs, as well as degraded and fragmented filaments in autophagic vacuoles. Selcen and Engel (2005) noted that the clinical and laboratory features of the patients were similar to those in other forms of MFM.
132700	The disorders classically referred to as familial cylindromatosis, Brooke-Spiegler syndrome, and multiple familial trichoepithelioma were originally described as distinct clinical entities. Patients with BRSS develop multiple skin appendage tumors including cylindromas, trichoepitheliomas, and spiradenomas. Patients with familial cylindromatosis have only cylindromas, and those with MFT1 have only trichoepitheliomas. However, because these disorders show overlapping phenotypic features, and because different manifestations of each have been described within a single family, many consider these disorders to represent a phenotypic spectrum of a single disease entity (Guggenheim and Schnyder, 1961; Welch et al., 1968; Gerretsen et al., 1995; Lee et al., 2005; Bowen et al., 2005; Young et al., 2006; Saggar et al., 2008).

Van Balkom and Hennekam (1994), who preferred the designation 'dermal eccrine cylindromatosis' for familial cylindromatosis, provided a review. 'Eccrine' referred to histologic evidence that the tumors may originate from the eccrine sweat glands.

Blake and Toro (2009) provided a detailed review of the spectrum of disorders associated with CYLD mutations.Ancell (1842) and Spiegler (1899) described a familial syndrome characterized by tumors of skin appendages, now known as cylindromas (Lee et al., 2005).

Baden (1962) noted that cylindromatosis can clinically resemble neurofibromatosis (NF1; 162200).

Welch et al. (1968) presented family data supporting the view that 'Ancell-Spiegler' cylindromas and 'Brooke-Fordyce' trichoepitheliomas were manifestations of a single entity.

Harper (1971) provided a dramatic example of cylindromatosis that developed into a 'turban tumor,' covering the scalp.

Vernon et al. (1988) described a solitary, apparently benign lung cylindroma in a 42-year-old woman with multiple cutaneous cylindromas. She died from coronary occlusion which occurred precociously in other members of her family, suggesting no connection between the coronary artery disease and the cylindromas.

Gerretsen et al. (1995) described a large family in which cutaneous cylindromas occurred in members of 5 generations with 30 affected persons (11 male, 19 female). Trichoepitheliomas and milia were also observed. Female-to-female, female-to-male, male-to-female, and male-to-male inheritance was observed. Penetrance reached 100% in adult life.

Gutierrez et al. (2002) reported a 4-generation German family in which 4 individuals had skin appendage tumors inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. The eldest affected member, deceased at the time of the report, had turban tumor-like cylindromas of the scalp and nasolabial region confirmed by histologic examination. Small nasolabial tumors from a woman in the third generation showed cylindromas on histology. The youngest family member, in the fourth generation, had cylindromas of the nasolabial region and trichoepitheliomas of the nose and scalp. Gutierrez et al. (2002) commented on the intrafamilial as well as intraindividual phenotypic variability.

Stoll et al. (2004) reported a mother and daughter with familial cylindromatosis. The dermal eccrine cylindroma arose as small solitary lesions in the mother at age 28 years. Other tumors arose, and she had surgery multiple times. The daughter developed lesions on the frontal part of the scalp at age 23 years. Family history revealed that the mother's sister was also affected.
